Now let's talk
about AWS Fault Injection Simulator, FIS.
So this is a way for you to run fault injection experiments
on AWS workloads.
And this is based on something called Chaos Engineering,
which is that you want to stress an application
by creating really, really disruptive events.
For example, the CPU starts skyrocketing
or the memories go out of memory,
or the database is having a failure,
or all these kinds of things.
And you want to see how your entire application stack
reacts to these disasters.
And this is why it's called Chaos Engineering,
because you're actually creating chaos
within your infrastructure.
So why do we do this?
Well to make sure our application is really solid,
and this allows us to uncover hidden bugs
and performance bottlenecks.
And currently, FIS supports some services,
you don't need to know them all,
so here's a list and maybe there'll be others over time,
but EC2 for example, by terminating EC2 instances,
ECS by stopping ECS tasks, EKS, and so on
to stop a Kubernetes task and RDS to make failures
go alongside our database.
So how does that work?
Well, we have FIS and we're going to create experiments.
And so we can use pre-built templates
to generate these disruptions,
and then they're going to have disruptions on resources.
So really you have to choose what happens
to your EC2 instances, what happens to your ECS clusters,
your RDS database and so on.
And then these experiments will start.
So the resources will get disrupted,
and then you have to see how your application behaves.
So we can monitor it using CloudWatch
or EventBridge or X-Ray or whatever you want.
And then once you're done,
then you stop the experiment
and you have a look at your results.
Was there any performance issue?
Was there observability issues or resiliency issues?
And you can improve your application
to see where the bottlenecks are okay?
So FIS is definitely an advanced kind of monitoring
and advanced kind of debugging, but it's definitely helpful.
And I'm so glad that AWS is now having this
as a native feature from within AWS.
So that's it for FIS.
I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.